===== PAGE 1 =====
 
 
A Nonlinear Granger Causality Learning Approach 
via Sparse Component-Wise MLP for iEEG-based 
Epileptogenic Zone Localization 
 
Zhengda Li 
Department of Automation 
Xiamen University 
Xiamen, China 
lizhengda@stu.xmu.edu.cn 
Sun Zhou* 
1 Department of Automation 
Xiamen University 
2 Xiamen Society of Systems Engineering 
Xiamen, China 
zhousun@xmu.edu.cn 
Abstract—Preoperative localization of the epileptogenic zone 
(EZ) is crucial for patients with drug -resistant epilepsy who 
require surgical removal of the EZ. In this paper, we propose a 
nonlinear Granger causality learning approach via sparse 
component-wise multil ayer perceptron (cMLP) for EZ 
localization. The model takes the historical signals of each 
intracranial electroencephalography (iEEG) channel as input to 
learn the nonlinear causal interactions among channels. 
Component-wise structure separates the influence of each input 
channel on every output channel, and applying sparsity 
regularization to the weights of each sub -model allows the 
identification of significant effective connectivity. By computing 
the local features of the effective connectivity,  we can analyze 
the possibility of epilepsy in different brain regions and 
determine the EZ. The proposed approach is evaluated on the 
iEEG data collected at the Hospital of the University of 
Pennsylvania (HUP). The results indicate that this approach can 
accurately identify EZ which is consistent with the clinical 
annotations. The precision, sensitivity, and F1 Score are 88.9%, 
100%, and 0.941, respectively.  
Keywords—Intracranial EEG , formatting, sparsity 
regularization, effective connectivity , epileptogenic zone 
localization, component-wise MLP  
I. INTRODUCTION  
Epilepsy is a common and serious chronic neuropathic 
condition, affecting approximately 6 0 million individuals 
globally [1]. Its onset is caused by abnormal discharges in 
specific brain regions, which then spread to other normal brain 
areas and impair their function [2]. Medication is the primary 
treatment for epilepsy, but about 30 –40% of patients do not 
respond to drugs. Such patients need surgical resection of the 
EZ, but the efficacy depends on the accurate localization of 
the EZ before surgery [3]. At present, localization of 
epileptogenic zone mainly relies on clinicians' subjective 
analysis of iEEG, which is very time-consuming and prone to 
human mistake. The non-linear and non-stationary features of 
EEG signals and the possibility of EEG activity similar to the 
abnormal discharge form of epileptogenic zone in normal 
brain areas further increase the difficulty of localization. 
iEEG provides EEG signals with high spatial resolution 
and high signal -to-noise ratio, which can more accurately 
reflect abnormal discharge activity of the brain, thus becoming 
an important method for preoperative localization of epileptic 
foci [4]. The ex isting methods for epileptogenic zone 
localization mainly include channel -wise analysis and 
network-based analysis. Channel -based analysis methods 
(such as high -frequency oscillation HFOs) can effectively 
capture abnormal activity in local brain regions an d provide 
reliable information for lesion identification [5]. The method 
based on brain network analysis reveals the propagation 
mechanism of epileptogenic activity at the system level by 
characterizing the connectivity of different brain regions.  
According to the nature of connection relationships, brain 
network analysis can be further divided into structural 
connectivity networks, functional connectivity networks, and 
effective connectivity networks  [6]. Specifically, functional 
connectivity networks refer to the statistical relationships of 
specific physiological signals over time, using the synchrony 
between brain structures to reflect the communication 
between regions  [7]. Effective connectivity network 
observation and analyzing the working principles and 
information transmission mechanisms of the brain can reflect 
the causal effects between brain regions and has greater 
potential in EZ localization [8]. Previous studies have used 
linear Granger causalit y models or frequency -domain 
methods to construct effective connectivity networks  [9]. In 
the field of deep learning, there has also been corresponding 
research on model interpretability [10] or on adding neural 
perturbations to established brain models to construct 
effective connectivity networks [11]. These methods have 
made significant pr ogress in revealing information 
transmission between brain regions and the mechanisms of 
epileptic seizures. 
This paper presents a nonlinear Granger causality learning 
approach via sparse cMLP for accurate localization of the EZ 
among patients with drug -resistant epilepsy.  The proposed 
approach con structs effective brain connectivity networks 
from iEEG signals and subsequently localizes the EZ based 
on the local features of these networks. Specifically, we utilize 
the cMLP framework for nonlinear causal modeling to learn 
nonlinear causal relationships between brain regions from 
multi-channel iEEG recordings.  The component-wise 
architecture explicitly disentangles the individual 
contributions of each input channel to each output channel. By 
imposing sparsity constraints on specific weights within each 
sub-module of the cMLP, the model automatically selects key 
causal connections. This process yields a time -varying 
effective connectivity network that reflects the brain's 
dynamic causal interactions.  The epileptogenicity of each 
brain region is assessed by evaluating the local features of the 
connectivity networks, enabling the automated identification 
of the seizure focus. This approach balances nonlinear 
modeling capability with interpretability of causal 
relationships, providing a quantifiable basis for revealing the 
2025 International Conference on Electrical, Communication, and Computing Technologies (iCONECCT) | 979-8-3315-7415-4/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICONECCT67014.2025.11470075
Authorized licensed use limited to: Xiamen University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 02:09:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
===== PAGE 2 =====
 
 
characteristics of abnormal discharges originating from the 
EZ. 
The remainder of the paper is structured as follows. 
Section 2 presents the methodology used in this approach. In 
Section 3, we present the application of our approach in 
localizing EZ in iEEG and discuss the results. Finally,  
conclusion and future directions are given in Section 4. 
II. METHOD 
The overall framework of the proposed approach is shown 
in Fig. 1, encompassing key steps such as nonlinear Granger 
causality modeling, sparsity -constrained optimization, 
dynamic effective connectivity network construction and EZ 
localization. In the left panel of Fig. 1, a cMLP is employed as 
a nonlinear Granger causality model , where independent 
modeling networks capture the dependencies of each output 
variable separately. The middle panel of Fig . 1 demonstrates 
that, based on the model prediction error, group loss is applied 
to specific layer weights to introduce sparsity constraints, and 
by aggregating the weights, the causal influence of each input 
channel on the current output channel can be obtained. In the 
right panel of Fig. 1, the causal relationships from all models 
are combined to construct an effective connectivity ne twork 
among brain regions. The sliding-window method is used to 
capture its dynamic evolution, and the information flow 
between iEEG channels is computed for each time window to 
characterize the network dynamics of the channels, enabling 
channels with sustained abnormal activity to be identified as 
the epileptogenic zone.
 
Fig. 1. Overall framework of the proposed method.
A. Modeling Multichannel Nonlinear Effective Connectivity 
in the Brain 
To characterize information transfer among brain regions, 
this study constructs a multichannel effective connectivity 
network based on nonlinear Granger causality (GC) analysis 
using a cMLP model. 
1) Effective Connectivity Modeling Based on Nonlinear 
Granger Causality 
The effective connectivity among multichannel brain 
signals can be characterized using the GC model. Under the 
linear assumption, GC is typically modeled via a vector 
autoregressive (VAR) model [12]. Let 𝑥𝑡 ∈ ℝ𝑝 denote a 𝑝-
dimensional stationary time series at time 𝑡. The VAR model 
assumes that 𝑥𝑡 is a linear combination of its past 𝐾 lagged 
vectors: 
 𝑥𝑡 = ∑ 𝛷𝑘𝐾
𝑘=1 𝑥𝑡−𝑘 + 𝜀𝑡 () 
where Φ𝑘 is a 𝑝 × 𝑝 coefficient matrix and 𝜀𝑡 is zero -mean 
white noise. If Φ𝑖,𝑗
𝑘 = 0 for all lags 𝑘 , channel 𝑗 is not 
considered to have a Granger causal effect on channel 𝑖. 
However, EEG signals exhibit strong nonlinearity and 
non-stationarity, especially during seizures, making the linear 
model insufficient to capture complex dynamic interactions 
between channels. Therefore, a nonlinear Granger causality 
model is introduced, which assumes that the time series at time 
𝑡 is a nonlinear function of historical channel information: 
 𝑥𝑡 = 𝑔(𝑥<𝑡1, ⋯ , 𝑥<𝑡𝑝) + 𝜀𝑡 () 
where 𝑥<𝑡𝑖 = (… , 𝑥𝑡−2,𝑖, 𝑥𝑡−1,𝑖)  represents the history of 
channel 𝑖 , 𝜀𝑡 is zero -mean white noise , and the function 
𝑔(⋅)captures the nonlinear influence of past values on the 
current value. 
To determine whether channel 𝑗 is a Granger causal source 
for channel 𝑖, we model each output channel 𝑖 separately: 
 𝑥𝑡𝑖 = 𝑔𝑖(𝑥<𝑡1, ⋯ , 𝑥<𝑡𝑝) + 𝜀𝑡𝑖 () 
If the function 𝑔𝑖(⋅)  is insensitive to the input from 
channel 𝑗, then channel 𝑗 is not considered a Granger cause 
of channel 𝑖, that is when  𝑥<𝑡𝑗 ≠ 𝑥,
<𝑡𝑗: 
 𝑔𝑖(𝑥<𝑡1, ⋯ , 𝑥<𝑡𝑗, ⋯ , 𝑥<𝑡𝑝) = 𝑔𝑖(𝑥<𝑡1, ⋯ , 𝑥,
<𝑡𝑗, ⋯ , 𝑥<𝑡𝑝)() 
2) Nonlinear Granger Causality Modeling Using cMLP 
To capture the information transfer among brain regions in 
a nonlinear manner, we adopt a cMLP structure. The cMLP 
constructs a separate nonlinear prediction model for each 
output channel 𝑖 , taking the historical sequences of all 
channels as input to predict the current value of the channel, 
thereby learning nonlinear causal relationships between 
channels. 
At time 𝑡, the hidden layer vector of the first layer is 
computed as: 
 ℎ𝑡
1 = 𝜎(∑ 𝑊1𝐾
𝑘=1 𝑥𝑡−𝑘 + 𝑏1) () 
where 𝑊1and 𝑏1 are the weight matrix and bias of the first 
layer, The symbol  𝜎(⋅)  represents a nonlinear activation 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Xiamen University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 02:09:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
===== PAGE 3 =====
 
 
function. The hidden layer at layer 𝑙 is recursively computed 
as: 
 ℎ𝑡
𝑙 = 𝜎(𝑊𝑙ℎ𝑡
𝑙−1 + 𝑏𝑙) () 
The output layer is given by: 
 𝑥𝑡𝑖 = 𝑔𝑖(𝑥<𝑡1, ⋯ , 𝑥<𝑡𝑝) + 𝜀𝑡𝑖 = 𝑊𝐿ℎ𝑡
𝐿−1 + 𝑏𝐿 + 𝜀𝑡𝑖 () 
where 𝑊𝐿and 𝑏𝐿are the parameters of the output layer, and 
𝜀𝑡,𝑖is assumed as a white noise with zero mean. 
B. Sparsity-Inducing Penalty on Network Weights 
The black-box nature of neural networks makes it difficult 
to directly extract causal relationships. To enhance model 
interpretability, a sparsity -inducing penalty on weights is 
introduced to shrink the model coefficients, resulting in a 
sparse representation where some weights are exactly zero. 
This mechanism enables the selection of channel -relevant 
information and facilitates causal interpretation of the learned 
parameters. 
In (6), if all elements in the 𝑗-th column of the first -layer 
weight matrix 𝑊1  for function 𝑔𝑖  are zero, denoted as  
𝑊(:,𝑗)
1 = 0, then the input channel 𝑥𝑡𝑗 does not affect either the 
hidden representation ℎ𝑡
1 or the output 𝑥𝑡𝑖, which corresponds 
to the situation described in (5), implying that the function 
𝑔𝑖(⋅) is independent of 𝑥𝑡𝑗. Consequently, channel 𝑗 is not a 
Granger cause of channel 𝑖 [10]. 
Therefore, by applying a sparsity -inducing regularization 
on 𝑊1, the model is encouraged to drive irrelevant column 
weights toward zero, effectively identifying Granger causal 
relationships between channels. The overall optimization 
problem can be formulated as: 
 𝑚𝑖𝑛
𝑊
∑ (𝑥𝑡𝑖 − 𝑔𝑖(𝑥(𝑡−1):(𝑡−𝐾)))
2
+ 𝜆 ∑ 𝛺(𝑊:𝑗
1)𝑝
𝑗=1
𝑇
𝑡=𝐾 () 
where Ω(⋅) is a penalty function that enforces sparsity by 
shrinking the magnitude of the j-th column of 𝑊1. In this 
study, a group lasso penalty [13] is used as Ω(⋅) , which 
performs shrinkage on the weights of the model's input 
channels, thereby automatically suppressing irrelevant 
channels and enhancing the model's causal interpretability: 
 𝛺(𝑊:𝑗
1) = ‖𝑊:𝑗
1‖𝐹 () 
where ∥⋅∥𝐹  denotes the Frobenius norm. This penalty will 
uniformly shrink all weights related to input series j. As a 
result, many columns of 𝑊1 become entirely zero, leaving 
only those channels that contribute significantly to the model 
output. Consequently, this regularization mechanism 
preserves only the most reliable Granger causal relationships 
among EEG channels. 
C. Epileptogenic Zone Localization Using Effective 
Connectivity Network Features 
The causal relationships between EEG channels 𝑖 and 𝑗 
are characterized through the sparse coefficients obtained 
from the nonlinear Granger causality model. These 
coefficients represent the directed information flow between 
channels and can be used for epileptogenic zone localization. 
Due to abnormal discharges in epileptic brain regions, the 
effective connectivity between EEG channels changes 
continuously over time. To capture these changes, a sliding 
window approach is applied to segment the iEEG data, 
enabling time -resolved analysis of effective connectivity 
patterns. The information flow between channels is obtained 
within every sliding window. We can use this information to 
build effective connectivity networks . Graph -theoretical 
measures are then applied to this network to localize potential 
epileptogenic zones. 
Assuming there are N EEG channels, the connectivity 
between channels are represented by a matrix  𝐶 = [𝑐𝑖𝑗] ∈
ℝ𝑁×𝑁 , each 𝑐𝑖𝑗  denotes the directed causal strength from 
channel j to channel i. For each channel i, the total information 
outflow is defined as the total of causal influences from i to all 
other channels, while the total inflow measures the cumulative 
influence received by channel i from all others. Finally, the net 
information flow is then defined as the difference between the 
above two: 
 
𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑤𝑖 = ∑ 𝑐𝑖𝑗
𝑁
𝑗=1，𝑗≠𝑖
𝑖𝑛𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑤𝑖 = ∑ 𝑐𝑗𝑖
𝑁
𝑗=1，𝑗≠𝑖  
𝑛𝑒𝑡𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑤𝑖 = 𝑜𝑢𝑡𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑤𝑖 − 𝑖𝑛𝑓𝑙𝑜𝑤𝑖
 () 
With the above description, we can obtain the local 
features of each brain effective connectivity network. Outflow 
reflects a channel's ability to act as a driving source and exert 
causal influence on other brain regions. If the outflow of a 
channel is consistently high, it may indicate that this region 
occupies a central position in the epileptic network, actively 
initiating the abnormal discharge. Inflow represents the extent 
to which a channel receives input from other b rain regions; 
The higher inflow ma y indicate that this region is more 
susceptible to synchronous drive or passive participation in 
abnormal activity by the epileptic network. Net flows, 
calculated as the difference between outflows and inflows, can 
identify regions that act as "net drivers" or "net recipients" in 
information exchange. Together, these features characterize 
the dynamic changes of the brain effective connectivity 
network during seizures. 
To avoid the interference of occasional fluctuations on the 
localization of EZ, the continuous -time judgment constraint 
was introduced. First, sort the information flow indicators of 
the iEEG channels in each time window, and select the 
channels in the top K% as suspected EZ channels. Further 
calculate the longest consecutive duration and the total 
number of anomalies in each channel within the continuous 
time window, and take the channels that exceed the set 
threshold as the predicted EZ channels. 
III. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION 
A. Dataset 
This study utilizes the publicly available OpenNeuro 
dataset ds004100, originally collected at the Hospital of the 
University of Pennsylvania (HUP). The dataset comprises de-
identified iEE G recordings from 58 individuals diagnosed 
with drug-resistant epilepsy. These recordings were obtained 
using a combination of subdural electrodes (ECoG) and 
stereotactically implanted depth electrodes (sEEG) [14]. All 
enrolled patients subsequently received the assigned surgical 
intervention, namely resection or laser abl ation. Treatment 
results were systematically assessed according to the Engel 
Epilepsy Surgery Outcome Scale. Patients classified as Engel 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Xiamen University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 02:09:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
===== PAGE 4 =====
 
 
Class I are generally free from disabling seizures; 
consequently, the analysis in this work primarily focuses on 
data from this specific patient subgroup. 
The dataset provides detailed spatial coordinates for each 
electrode contact, along with clinically annotated 
epileptogenic channels and records of the specific channels 
that were either surgically resected or thermally ablated. These 
comprehensive annotations establish a reliable foundation for 
the localization and analysis of the epileptogenic zone. 
As an example, subject sub-HUP  116 was implanted with 
sEEG electrodes at a sampling rate of 500 Hz, comprising 52 
total channels, among which 50 were usable. The EZ was 
identified in the RA and RH channels. This patient achieved 
an Engel Class I postoperative outcome, indicating the 
absence of disabling seizures. Fig . 2 illustrates a segment of 
sEEG recordings from the patient’s first seizure episode.  
During data preprocessing, bad channels were first removed. 
Subsequently, a low-pass filter was applied to suppress high-
frequency components above 80 Hz, using a finite impulse 
response (FIR) filter with a Hann window to reduce ringing 
artifacts. A notch filter was then applied to suppress power 
line interference and its second harmonic (60 Hz and 120 Hz), 
with a bandw idth of ± 2 Hz, also implemented using an FIR 
filter. 
 
Fig. 2. An exemplary sEEG segment of patient HUP116 during the first 
seizure. 
B. Dynamic Evolution of Brain Effective Connectivity 
Networks 
Brain effective connectivity networks were constructed 
using patient sEEG data.  We analyzed the first seizure of 
patient HUP116 as an example, the sEEG recording had a total 
duration of 322 seconds, comprising 160,000 data points. The 
seizure onset occurred at 120 seconds and ended at 261.998 
seconds. For analysis, a 160 -second segment spanning 80 
seconds before and after seizure onset (i.e., 40 –200 seconds) 
was extracted. 
To characterize the dynamic evolution of brain effective 
connectivity during this period, the signals were divided into 
5-second time windows with 80% overlap for sliding-window 
analysis. Within each window, a nonlinear Granger causality 
model with sparse coefficient regularization was applied to 
construct a 50× 50 causal connectivity matrix. Each element in 
the matrix, located at row i and column j, represents the causal 
influence of channel i on channel j within the corresponding 
time window. 
A total of 156 causal connectivity matrices were obtained 
from the entire sEEG segment, with each matrix representing 
the effective connectivity network during a specific time 
window. Fig . 3 schematically illustrates the network 
structures derived from different representative time windows, 
depicting different brain network states before and during ictal. 
  
Fig. 3. Brain network states at different stages. The left and right panel 
correspond to pre-ictal and ictal time windows, respectively. 
As shown in Fig . 3, the greater the influence of a certain 
channel on other channels in the network, the stronger its 
causal correlation with other channel nodes, and the more 
distinct the heatmap color of its corresponding row. The 
results indicate that, except for cases w here adjacent region 
channels have higher connection strength, the connection 
strength of EZ channels corresponding to RA and RH is 
significantly higher than that of other channel nodes. 
The outflow, inflow, and net flow of each channel were 
calculated for each time window, and the corresponding flow 
chart was plotted accordingly (see Fig. 4). The horizontal axis 
represents time, with a coordinate value of 0 representing the 
moment of seizure onset. The vertical axis represents the flow 
magnitude of each channel. Each red and blue line 
corresponds to an epileptogenic channel and a non -
epileptogenic channel, respectively. The gray shaded area 
indicates the ictal period. The actually labeled epileptogenic 
channels showed significantly higher net outflow than other 
channels after the seizure. 
 
 
 
Fig. 4. Color-coded flow diagrams of all channels for each time window. 
The red channels represent clinically labeled EZ channels, the blue 
channels represent non -epileptogenic channels, and the gray shaded 
areas indicate the periods of ictal. 
The dynamic evolution of the brain effective connectivity 
network is illustrated in Fig . 4. Prior to seizure onset, the 
outflows and inflow s of the majority of brain region are 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Xiamen University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 02:09:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
===== PAGE 5 =====
 
 
relatively balanced, resulting in net information flow values 
fluctuating around zero, which reflects a relatively stable state 
of inter -regional information transfer. In contrast, during 
seizure activity, the dynamic characteristics of epileptogenic 
zone channels are markedly distinct from those of normal 
regions, exhibiting significantly elevated outflow and inflow, 
as well as larger net flow amplitudes compared to oth er 
channels. These findings indicate that the epileptogenic zones 
act as core drivers wi thin the seizure network, providing a 
reliable indicator for seizure localization. 
C. Localization of the Epileptogenic Zone 
Guided by the characteristics of the effective connection 
network, this study further compared the characteristics of 
distinct channels in each time window, and chose the 
candidate channels that were significantly active in the 
distribution of information flow. If the channels were active in 
the continuous time window, they could be considered to be 
in the core position in the epilepsy network and determined as 
epileptogenic foci, so as to avoid the interference of sporadic 
fluctuations. Specifically, three indicators of outflow, inflow 
and net flow were used to analyze each channel, and the top 
18% nodes were selected as the predicted epileptogenic foci. 
The predicted results were compared with the surgical 
resection area of epilepsy patients, and the accur acy, 
sensitivity and F1 Score of the predicted results were 
calculated. 
The statistical metrics used to evaluate classification 
performance in this approach include Precision, Sensitivity, 
and F1 score, which are formally defined as follows: 
 𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛 =
𝑇𝑃
𝑇𝑃+𝐹𝑃  × 100% () 
 𝑆𝑒𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑖𝑡𝑦 =
𝑇𝑃
𝑇𝑃+𝐹𝑁  × 100% () 
 𝐹1 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑒 =
2×(𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛×𝑆𝑒𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑖𝑡𝑦)
𝑃𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑖𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛+𝑆𝑒𝑛𝑠𝑖𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑖𝑡𝑦  () 
among them, TP (True Positive) represents the channel that is 
correctly predicted to be an epileptic source  channel and is 
consistent with the actual surgical resection or clinical 
labeling.; TN (True Negative) represents the channels 
correctly identified as non -epileptic sources; FP (False 
Positive) represents non -epileptic source channels that are 
wrongly pred icted to be epileptic sources and FN (False 
Negative) indicates an epileptic source channel that has not 
been correctly identified. 
The results of the experiments are shown in Table I, where 
bold fonts mark the indicators for which patients perform 
optimally among the three features. From the overall results, 
outflow was better than inflow and net flow in all predictors 
(precision=0.889, sensitivity=1.0, F1=0.941), showing higher 
stability and reliability. Therefore, outflow can be considered 
a superior indicator for seizure onset zone localization, more 
effectively reflecting the core role of epileptogenic regions 
within the brain network. 
TABLE I.  RESULTS OF EPILEPTOGENIC ZONE LOCALIZATION WITH 
THREE METRICS 
Metrics Precision Sensitivity F1 Score 
Outflow 88.9% 100% 0.941 
Inflow 77.8% 87.5% 0.824 
Metrics Precision Sensitivity F1 Score 
Netflow 33.3% 37.5% 0.353 
To further validate the effectiveness of introducing 
sparsity regularization in constructing the brain effective 
connectivity network, an ablation experiment was conducted. 
Specifically, a model without sparsity constraint was used as 
the control group and compared with the sparsity-constrained 
model (see results in Table 1). Both experiments used the 
same dataset and processing pipeline, and the performance 
was evaluated using Precision, Sensitivity, and F1 Score as 
metrics. The experimental results are presented in Table 2. 
TABLE II.  RESULTS OF EPILEPTOGENIC ZONE LOCALIZATION WITH 
THE MODEL WITHOUT SPARSITY CONSTRAINT 
Metrics Precision Sensitivity F1 Score 
Outflow 77.8% 87.5% 0.824 
Inflow 55.6% 62.5% 0.588 
Netflow 33.3% 37.5% 0.353 
 
Table 2 presents the localization results of the model 
without sparsity constraint across the three features. As shown, 
the performance of this model is consistently inferior to that 
of the sparsity -constrained model in all evaluation metrics. 
Specifically, under the outflow feature, the F1 Score decreases 
from 0.941 to 0.824, and the inflow feature also exhibits 
varying degrees of decline. These results indicate that 
introducing sparsity regularization in the construction of the 
effective connectivity network effectivel y suppresses 
redundant connections and highlights core lesion -related 
channels, thereby improving localization accuracy and 
stability. 
IV. CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE WORK 
The study proposes a nonlinear Granger causality learning 
method to construct an effective connectivity network via 
component-wise MLP for iEEG -based EZ  localization, 
aiming to provide help for preoperative localization of the EZ 
among patients with drug -resistant epilepsy. On the HUP 
iEEG dataset, the accuracy of the approach was 88.9%, the 
sensitivity was 100%  and the F1 score was 0.941. By  
integrating machine learning with neural data analytics , this 
approach can accurately identify the EZ before surgery. The 
experimental results demonstrate that this approach has good 
performance in the localization of EZ. In view of the large 
differences in etiology and seizure types among different 
patients, the criteria for determining EZ should be adapted to 
individual data characteristics. In future work, we plan to 
conduct experiments using a larger patient iEEG data set to 
further verify the feasibility of the proposed approach in 
different types of epilepsy , refine the implementation of 
optimization techniques in engineering  and perform 
systematic comparative analyses usi ng state -of-the-art 
methods. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Z. Chen et al., “Ambient air pollution and epileptic seizures: A panel 
study in australia,” Epilepsia, vol. 63, no. 7, pp. 1682–1692, Jul. 2022, 
doi: 10.1111/epi.17253. 
[2] R. S. Fisher et al., “ILAE official report: A practical clinical definition 
of epilepsy,” Epilepsia, vol. 55, no. 4, pp. 475 –482, Apr. 2014, doi: 
10.1111/epi.12550. 
[3] B. E. Youngerman, F. A. Khan, and G. M. McKhann, 
“Stereoelectroencephalography in epilepsy, cognitive neurophysiology, 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Xiamen University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 02:09:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
===== PAGE 6 =====
 
 
and psychiatric disease: Safety, efficacy, and place in therapy,” NDT, 
vol. Volume 15, pp. 1701 –1716, Jun. 2019, doi: 
10.2147/NDT.S177804. 
[4] M. Mü ller, M. Caporro, H. Gast, C. Pollo, R. Wiest, K. Schindler, and 
C. Rummel, “Linear and nonlinear interrelations show fundamentally 
distinct network structure in preictal intracranial EEG of epilepsy 
patients,” Human Brain Mapping, vol. 41, no. 2, pp. 467 –483, Feb. 
2020, doi: 10.1002/hbm.24816. 
[5] Z. Cai, X. Jiang, A. Bagić, G. A. Worrell, M. Richardson, and B. He, 
“Spontaneous HFO sequences reveal propagation pathways for precise 
delineation of epileptogenic networks,” May 05, 2024, Neuroscience. 
doi: 10.1101/2024.05.02.592202. 
[6] A. Roebroeck, A. K. Seth, and P. Valdes -Sosa, “Causal time series 
analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging data”. 
[7] G. Deshpande, Z. Li, P. Santhanam, C. D. Coles, M. E. Lynch, S. 
Hamann, and X. Hu , “Recursive cluster elimination based support 
vector machine for disease state prediction using resting state 
functional and effective brain connectivity,” PLoS ONE, vol. 5, no. 12, 
p. e14277, Dec. 2010, doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0014277. 
[8] A. A. Sokolov et al., “Asymmetric high -order anatomical brain 
connectivity sculpts effective connectivity,” Network Neuroscience, 
vol. 4, no. 3, pp. 871–890, Jan. 2020, doi: 10.1162/netn_a_00150. 
[9] X. Hu et al., “Differentiating temporal plus ‘insula’ epilepsy from 
temporal lobe epilepsy by brain networks based on noninvasive 
examinations,” CNS Neurosci Ther, vol. 31, no. 7, p. e70517, Jul. 2025, 
doi: 10.1111/cns.70517. 
[10] L. Kong, W. Li, H. Yang, Y. Zhang, J. Guan, and S. Zhou, 
“CausalFormer: An interpretable transformer for temporal causal 
discovery,” IEEE Transactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, 
vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 102 –115, Jan. 2025, doi: 
10.1109/TKDE.2024.3484461. 
[11] Z. Luo et al., “Mapping effective connectivity by virtually perturbing a 
surrogate brain,” Nat Methods, Apr. 2025, doi: 10.1038/s41592 -025-
02654-x. 
[12] A. Tank, I. Covert, N. Foti, A. Shojaie, and E. Fox, “Neural granger 
causality,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., pp. 1–1, 2021, doi: 
10.1109/TPAMI.2021.3065601. 
[13] M. Yuan and Y. Lin, “Model selection and estimation in regression 
with grouped variables,” Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series 
B: Statistical Methodology, vol. 68, no. 1, pp. 49 –67, Feb. 2006, doi: 
10.1111/j.1467-9868.2005.00532.x. 
[14] J. M. Bernabei et al., “Normative intracranial EEG maps epileptogenic 
tissues in focal epilepsy,” Brain, vol. 145, no. 6, pp. 1949 –1961, Jun. 
2022, doi: 10.1093/brain/awab480. 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: Xiamen University. Downloaded on April 30,2026 at 02:09:53 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
